Previously
on this season
of Gold Rush.
We're hunting for ground.
We need grounds.
With the competition
for Klondike gold
reaching a fever pitch,
27-year-old Parker Schnabel
took a massive risk
on a wild card claim.
We've never gone this deep.
Shut her down, shut her down.
This season, we put
a lot of our eggs
in the Mud Mountain basket
and it needs to be
making money.
Flush with ground,
Tony Beets spent
five million dollars
on equipment...
...but lost his most
productive claim.
We've got a bedrock hole
here at 210 feet.
Rick Ness
doubled down on his decision
to leave the Klondike
with a one million dollar gamble...
This is one of
the scariest things
I've ever done.
I'm gonna to go broke.
...on the deepest claim
he's ever mined.
Stop! Stop!
Oh,
sakes!
The payoff at the bottom,
it could be a life-changing.
And after a disastrous
rookie season,
Fred and his band of
combat veterans
headed to the Yukon,
determined to earn
their mining stripes.
That's about the biggest pay
we had last season times ten.
Come hell or high water,
the misfits are coming out
on top.
Now,
the final push...
Kill the plant.
What did you do?
I just don't know
how much more we can fight.
I'm in the pond.
The walls
caving in.
Are you kidding me?
With just over 1600 ounces
of gold,
we're still way off our
2000 ounce season goal.
We got...
..a bunch of
snow overnight.
I'm sure
there's a lots of people
that would call this pretty, but...
...I call it the last
thing we need right now.
Rick Ness is running
out of time.
He's 190 feet down
in his Rally Valley cut
on the best gold
he's ever seen.
With winter breathing down
his neck...
Kyle, come on.
...it's time
to put the pedal
to the metal.
Obviously, you guys are
standing in the same
storm that I am.
quick
winter snuck up man.
This is way earlier than
I've seen it in a long time.
Of all the years
for this to happen,
uh, give me a break.
We dug this big hole.
This is the best pay
we've ever had.
With this weather like this
- we aren't--
- Gonna have time to run it all this year.
Is there any way
we can push this plan
any harder than
what we have been?
You gotta add another loader,
right?
Wouldn't that work?
Clear tailings.
Grab a bucket of pay
every now and then.
Maybe crank her up 400 yards
and see if we can keep up
with it?
Four hundred yards
an hour?
It's a push but...
- Pretty sweet to do that.
- Yeah.
I mean, that feeder will do
over 800 yards an hour.
The plant, you know,
we're already 300 yards
an hour.
There's room.
There's room on that deck.
There's room
in that sluice box.
It's worth a shot.
We're gonna have our work
cut out, trying to
keep that baby
full of pay.
Yeah, well,
that's how it is
in the end of the season.
Wouldn't have it
any other way, right?
Should we get after it?
I say we should.
Let's get
after it then.
I want to crank up
to 400 yards an hour.
The only way
to keep that amount
fed through this plant
was to be having two loaders,
load and pay.
You know, one full-time,
just dumping
scoop after scoop
in the feeder
and then a second one
alternating between tailings
and dumping a scoop of pay
in the hopper
as it goes by every time
as well.
Doing a little dance like that
it's actually,
it's working pretty good.
I'll come in from behind you
there with another scoop
there, dad.
Okay, I'll run up there
and take care of that
- then I'll go do the waste.
- Perfect.
It's great
having my dad here.
He started operating engineers
when he was like 18 years old.
He had experience before that,
working for his dad,
my grandpa.
So, he's got
more experience
than most of the crew here combined.
I love
coming up here helping him
for a few weeks,
but I'll tell you what,
I don't think I can handle
an entire season
of gold mining.
It is brutal.
Give him credit.
He has a great work ethic.
He busts his ass to try to
make things work.
You're at
the end of the season.
We're stressed for time.
If my dad and I
are hanging out,
it's hanging out at work,
stuffing dirt through
a large plant.
What's going on over there?
Yeah, he, uh, this thing's
throwing, uh,
low battery voltage code.
Voltage is dropping.
Sixteen volts right now
and going down
and it's honking at me, um.
I'm gonna have to go
and check this thing out.
All right, uh...
Maybe it's something simple.
I hope it is.
Thanks, dad.
Hey, Kyle, we're having
a problem with one of these loaders,
so we're gonna have to dial
the plant back down
to 300 yards an hour.
Hopefully, uh,
my dad figures it out.
Without
these two machines,
it's gonna make it
nearly impossible
to meet that goal.
Rick's gear
has been limping through
the season.
Without a mechanic
on the crew,
he needs his dad
to keep it running.
To get into
the meat and bones of
these machines, right,
that's, it's over my head.
I mean, you need a tech
like Kyle
to do that kind of thing.
Not having a mechanic
up here sucks.
Just looking at the alternator
here real quick.
Most times it's an alternator issue,
a charging system issue.
That's what the alternator
does, charges the battery.
But, uh, everything looks good here.
It looks like it's running
nice and cool.
Connections are all good
on it.
I'm going to go and look
at the other end of this thing
and see if maybe
it's a bad ground
or something,
maybe a battery issue.
If big Rick
can't fix the loader's
electrics,
Rick will be leaving money
in the Rally Valley bank.
So,
this strong wire
is very, very loose
and somewhat corroded.
The dirt and the moisture
gets in between the clamp
from the cable and the post on
the battery and
that'll sometimes
make 'em lose contact.
So, what I'll do is
clean up this battery post,
we'll tighten her back up
and hopefully, that'll be the,
the resolve for this issue.
Good, right there.
Hopefully all we need to do is
just get a jumpstart
on this thing,
get it up and running.
Okay, now, we'll give her...
I'm gonna look and see, uh,
what we're getting
for a charge.
yeah!
The system's charging,
uh, it looks like
it's gonna hold voltage.
Let's get this done.
Rick, Rick, you got a copy?
Yeah, go ahead.
I found the problem
on this loader.
yeah,
that's awesome news, dad.
Yeah, hey, Kyle.
Crank that plant
back up, buddy.
Yee-haw!
bricks
there for a minute,
I thought we were turned out
for good for the rest
of the season.
My dad and I are loading
this plant
400 yards an hour
and snow, ice,
whatever the it is,
we're just gonna keep going.
So, weather's closing in
on us here,
it's been snowing
a little bit.
It's been cold.
You know, it's that end of season...
...push.
And everybody's doing
a really good job.
With just days
left in his season,
27-year-old Parker Schnabel
has mined over
7,000 ounces of gold
worth 12.8 million dollars.
The best thing we can do is,
you know, put as much gold
in the box
right now as possible,
make as much money as we can
so that we can afford
a second operation
next year.
To beat
his previous record.
Parker needs to pull in over
350 ounces of gold
before
the brutal Yukon winter
freezes them out.
It's a really
good team right now
and I've tried hard to
give everybody as much
autonomy as I can
and it's worked great.
Parker's leaned heavily
on plant boss Tyson Lee
and superstar mechanic
and foreman
- Mitch Blaschke...
- Here we go!
...who's running point
on Mud Mountain.
You know, we definitely
spent more money than
we did last year.
I know that.
Those big dozers
ripping all that mud
this year was,
was very expensive.
So far,
he's dropped
5.4 million dollars,
getting to the bottom
of Mud Mountain,
and he still
hasn't broken even.
But he's finally
on a hot pay streak.
If there's enough of it,
he could still win big.
And the piece that's left,
though, is where
the best drilling was.
So, there's still hope.
- Good morning.
- 'sup, Postman?
Now, Mitch
and operator Damien Browne
are ready
to pull the last section
of gold rich paydirt.
All we got to do is get
the last of this pay
out of this road.
We'll pull the dewatering
pump soon as this last pay
Big Red.
- Mud Mountain cut's done.
- Sweet.
We've been waiting
a long time to say that.
Been waiting all season
to say that to us.
Sluicifer should be
finishing up
this week as well
down at Ken's.
We'll get the trucks down here
hopefully, it's got
a lot of gold in it.
- Sweet.
- Have a good one.
Thank you, Damien.
Ever since
I got here this season,
Parker told me
about this project
he wanted to take on,
and it's been a huge one.
You look at the equipment,
it's tore up,
you look at the manpower
we've invested into this.
And, you know, it's just
a matter of, is there
enough gold in here
to make it all worthwhile?
Ready to pull
this pump?
- ready for it.
- Let's do it.
This dirt is where
the best drilling was.
Now, what we're shooting
for here
is a total of the season
of over 7,500,
we wanna beat
what we did last year.
That's a lot of gold to
get out of this ground
up here in one season.
We've been running Big Red
at a nice pace here
to make all this happen,
but right now,
it's the last lap, we're gonna
crank this baby up.
Oh, yeah, that'll do it.
If we got any chance
of getting this dirt
through there,
this is it.
Sluicifer in rough shape
right now.
We've run it hard and
run a lot of paydirt
through it this year
and caught a hell of a lot
of gold with it.
Four miles
west of Mud Mountain,
Tyson Lee is piling paydirt
from the Ugly Cut
through Sluicifer
as fast as he can.
We're a little short
from where we were last year,
gold wise.
Hopefully we can get
the rest of this pay
through Sluicifer
before Mother Nature
freezes us down.
Hey, Tyson,
you got a copy, Tyson?
Go ahead,
clear to talk.
There's something wrong
with my loader.
I think the, the tire's burst.
Alec's gonna
come down.
Without
Tatiana clearing tailings,
Tyson will soon be
forced to shut down.
He's go, go, go,
trying to get things fixed.
The pressure is on.
Well, well, well,
looks pretty
A lot of the bedrock
that is in the cut
is very sharp,
jagged.
I wouldn't wanna be
a tire running
on this ground personally.
There we go.
Rims coming apart.
Oh, yeah, great success.
Things are looking good,
just swinging
the new tire in place.
Here we go.
Just reassembled
the other part
of the two piece rim
and now we're about to
throw some air at it.
And see a smile
on Tatiana's face, I'd expect.
- You saved the day.
- Yeah.
- Ooh!
- Well.
- High five for talent.
- Yeah.
I just finally got
my loader back
with a brand-new tire,
can finally get going
with tailings.
I got tons of work
to catch up with.
I'm happy 'cause
there's only so much time.
Let's get back to work
and finish her off.
Everything around here
is frozen.
The creek's
starting to freeze.
Cold weather
is our biggest enemy.
At California Creek.
Fred Lewis has a few days
left in the season
to hit his goal.
Right now,
we're sitting at 87 ounces.
Last week, we spent
the entire week
fixing problems and we got
zero gold for it.
If we wanna reach our
100 ounce gold,
we can't have any problems
from this point on.
We've got to
fire on all cylinders.
To maximize production,
he's teamed up with neighbor
Brandon Clayton
and his monster trommel.
Purring like a kitten, baby.
Fred's
part of the deal,
keep the dirt devil fed
with a steady flow of paydirt
from his cut
half a mile upstream.
We're gonna do what
we can do to hit that 100.
This is officially
the last push.
Temperatures
are dropping.
and, you know, nature
is definitely knocking at
our front door
saying, "Get the
out of here."
Scout sniper,
Stuart McKenzie,
is in the cut.
Right now, I'm going
through a frozen pay
that is unbelievably thick,
battling rock, battling ice,
battling mud
and run as much pay
through Brandon's plant
that we possibly can
before we get
kicked out of here.
Special Forces
Sergeant Rick Douglas
runs pay to the plant.
We're all just hanging on
by a thread
as far as trying to get
this last big push in
before the cold weather
sends us all home.
I'm trying to keep this thing
running 24/7 right now.
As you can see,
your pay pile is pretty small.
I can probably
make this last one hour.
If they don't pick up
the pace, we're gonna have
a problem here.
I don't wanna have to shut
this plant down.
Hey, guys, what the
is the holdup back there?
Need more pay.
Yes, Stu's really fighting it
over there.
I mean, every place
he's digging is harder
and every place
we're driving now
is soft and muck.
We're trying.
All right, 10-4, man,
time is ticking.
If you would like
to switch jobs,
- I'm more than happy to.
- Yeah.
Whoa! [bleep]!
No!
Get over here!
I'm in the pond.
Somebody better
get over here quick.
It's still sliding down.
I'm in the pond.
And it's filling up
with water.
Hey, Rick,
what happened?
Driving back to get another
load of pay,
and as I'm coming down,
the slope just takes me in.
Even if we wanted to,
we couldn't get
the other rock truck by
to go over and pull pay
on the other side.
Holy man.
We're gonna try and hold it
with the big hole
and the 250 will start
to drag it out.
We don't want that Cat
to roll over
or we're gonna ruin
a half a million dollar machine.
The truck is blocking
the road from the cut.
If they can't rescue it
within the hour,
the plant will run out of pay.
It's in neutral?
It's in neutral.
Okay,
Buzz let's see if it'll...
...come backwards.
Watch your eyeballs, kids.
Right now,
we're unable
to get pay to the plant.
We just can't keep up anymore.
We're shutting the plant off.
Until they salvage
the waterlogged rock truck,
the California Creek operation
is at a standstill.
Well, cable has a lot more
strength than a chain and...
if we're gonna pull her
out of there,
cable's our best bet.
- Clear.
You gotta
be kidding me.
Oh... [bleep], man.
That cable actually hauled
our wash plant up a hill
and it broke here because
there's so much suction
and the silt on the front end
of that truck.
So, we've gotta come up
with another plan.
In my world, we call it
from hell.
I mean, it, it looks
so close right here,
but it just won't come.
- Got an idea, though.
- What's that?
What about using
the old dozer?
Maybe it could probably
pull it back, eh?
Okay. Yeah,
let's do that.
- We'll get this fixed as soon as possible.
- Sounds good.
All good.
Voila!
Oh, they broke the lead
wire that we had,
so we're making the new one.
If this breaks,
that rock truck's
probably staying there.
Fred's last ditch plan,
use the pulling power
of two excavators
plus the D8 dozer.
Looks good.
Okay, everybody pull.
Three...
Two...
One, pull.
Whoo-hoo!
Yeah!
Oh, oh, she's great.
That is a faucet of water
pouring out of the engine.
Everything electrical
was underwater.
I, I believe this one's
done for the season.
Yeah. We've gotta get
this out of the way,
so we can get the road fixed
and get back to
the pulling pay.
Probably lost about
20 grand today
in fuel costs, labor
and lost gold.
Right now, we've got one
rock truck down.
That's a third of our fleet
for hauling pay.
We don't have
a lot of time here.
This one hurt.
At Paradise Hill,
Tony Beets has just days
left in his season
to get the 500 ounces
he needs
to hit his season goal.
He's depending on son, Mike,
with his massive trommel
on the hill...
Trying to get as far in
and grab as much pay
as we can.
...and family friend,
Ruby Mahoney,
running the Kiwi plant
down in the Hunker Cut.
At this point
in the season,
you know, every single
ounce counts.
It's just gonna push
us closer to that,
you know, 4.5 thousand
ounce gold,
all of our hard work
and all the that
we've been through here,
will actually,
count for something.
Everything's looking
all right.
that should be
spinning is spinning.
that should be easy, so.
We're all good.
Hey, Tony. Hey, Tony.
Kiwi plant is running.
Everything is up and going.
It's getting really
close at the end
of the season.
And it could just
be done like that,
but if we get
hit by the snow
and just have to shut down.
So...
hopefully we can keep
at it for as long as we can.
Everything that could
have gone wrong
has gone wrong in this cut.
We've had engine problems.
The cut blew out on us.
Hopefully, we can, you know,
end this season
on a high note.
Kevin, I don't have any water.
What the [bleep]!
Yeah, that ain't
pumping right.
They can't mine
any gold without water.
Oh, yeah.
Only last week,
Kevin cleared mud and debris
from this intake.
Now...
it's blocked again.
I'm really not
surprised at this point.
This cut has been
nothing but problems.
Without water
we can't sluice, and...
we're down again.
This cut is cursed.
I don't know how we're ever
gonna finish this place.
- Hey, Ruby.
- Hey.
So, clearly we're
not gonna get decent
water from over here.
It's gonna get clogged again.
- Right.
- So, we're gonna end up moving the pump.
- Really?
- Since we haven't been down here in a while
where we've been pulling
the pay from has
flooded again.
- Right.
- So, that water is...
as pretty well clear
as we're gonna get.
We won't have
all this...
That's right.
All right. Well,
I guess we're killing
two birds with one stone.
We're gonna empty
your pond, and
at least we have clean water.
Kevin's plan,
move the water intake
for the plant
to the flooded
section of the cut,
which should supply
clean water
free of sediment.
This is exactly
what I expected.
It's all river rock.
So, it's been
pre-washed almost.
We should not have any
sediment issues in here.
It's right there.
Now, next step.
Hook up the suction,
hook up the feed lines
and then...
from the off we go.
Perfect.
Wanna drink?
Clean water.
Step one.
I figured. Yeah,
I heard you coming
like, just
All right.
Yeah.
Oh, nice.
Cool. Let's do it.
Please work,
you piece of junk.
Firing up.
Whoo! Flood's up
and running
We are paying here.
Ready to sluice.
So, hopefully...
That's it. We can just...
finish this off.
Yeah, that looks
a lot better.
I should be able
to just
come back when they need
to clean up.
Excellent.
You know,
this time of year,
the snow can start
flying at any minute.
And that's why
it's so important
to get the Mud Mountain
done here.
Obviously, we had
a big stockpile
of paydirt here
at one point,
and now we've got,
you know, hardly
anything left.
Just got to try and get it
through the wash plant
before everything
freezes up here.
24 weeks ago,
Parker staked his season
on Mud Mountain.
He's dug 60 feet down
to the deepest
and hopefully the best pay
he's ever mined.
So, this is the last few
loads here in Mud Mountain.
Now,
operator Damien Browne
is digging out
the last of the cut,
in the hopes that it delivers
their biggest gold weigh ever.
So, it froze
quite hard last night.
We came out this morning
to find all the water,
is all frozen over.
So it's a good job.
We're getting close
to the end.
I'm really hoping
that these...
coney holes here are gonna
really pay off for us.
I think,
this is actually it.
Nothing, Mitch.
Yeah. Go ahead.
Yeah, man. I think
we're done down here.
No way, man.
That's the last of it, huh?
We've been waiting
a long time to say that.
All right, awesome.
Well, let's just see
if we can get this stuff
through wash plant now.
Better crank it up.
Yeah, buddy.
It has been a long...
season here up Mud Mountain.
I actually can't believe
that, that was
the last scoop out of it.
I just hope there's a bucket
full of gold.
Last bucket
of Mud Mountain
and we've been out here since
Chris got on the ground.
This season hasn't been
what we thought,
it was going to be...
Finally, we can call it
an end after this.
That's it, buddy,
last one right there.
It's about time, I never
thought this nightmare
was gonna end.
Yeah! That's what
I'm talking about.
This is such a good feeling.
You think about that stockpile
we had here when we started.
Mud Mountain has been reduced
to one hopper of pay dirt.
We conquered it.
Yeah, nice job, man.
Let's shut this
thing off, man.
Woo! Yeah!
Right now, we're shutting off
Big Red in Mud Mountain
for the last time,
and it's a good feeling.
We won't know until Chris does
a final clean up here for us.
We see just how much gold we
were able to get out of this.
Every year we've...
...been able to climb higher
and higher with our gold
numbers and, you know,
I'm really hoping
this isn't the year
when we don't
beat that record.
This last bit of pay
in the Ugly Cut, and the last
bit of pay
at Mud Mountain can...
...help us get to where
we wanna be,
and that's above 7,500.
Just hours after
Mitch shuts down Big Red,
Tyson is also reaching
the end of the pay dirt
in the Ugly Cut.
So, here we go,
this is the last scoop
of pay going into Sluicifer.
And that's a mining season
wrapped up.
Things are starting
to ice up around here.
Couldn't have stopped
at a better time.
And it's the first day
I've seen stuff like
this on Sluicifer,
and it's a good thing
we're done.
- Hey, Chris, how are you?
- Hey, old dog.
- How are you doing, young fella?
- Good.
- This is it, huh?
- This is it.
- Last one, this is all you're gonna get.
- Yeah.
Claim owner,
Ken Tatlow,
and gold expert,
Chris Doumitt,
arrive for the final
mat pull of the season
on Sluicifer.
Get some of this mud
and dirt out of here
- and see what we got, Ken.
- Yeah.
Yeah, you got some
gold there, Chris.
- Yeah, a little bit in there, huh?
- Yeah.
It is pretty fine,
isn't it?
- It is.
- That looks good,
if you've got enough of it.
- Hey, Ken.
- Hey, Tyson.
- How are you?
- Good, thank you very much.
- No worries.
- Good job, well done.
- Thank you, sir.
- Yeah, yeah, good.
I'm glad you were looking
after down here.
It's done.
It's in the bag, so...
Well, the good cut
was all right.
- The bad cut was better than the good cut.
- Yeah.
And the Ugly Cut seemed
to hold to its name.
Now, all we have to do
is watch the movies
- The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly.
- Yeah, yeah.
I guess I'll catch
you at the gold weigh.
- Sounds good. I'll see you there.
- Okay. Yep.
- Take care.
- Thanks, Tyson.
This was final cleanup
for, uh, the Ugly Cut.
That's a final cleanup
for Sluicifer for the season.
The last two clean-ups
weren't all that great,
but with this one,
we're doing the wings also,
which we haven't done
during the whole cut, so...
...that might be...
...the saving grace
for the final cleanup.
Last chance to change its name
from the Ugly Cut to the
not so good-looking cut.
What's happening?
I wanna let you guys
know where we're
at with everything.
Hours after
the sluices stopped,
Parker has some
bad news for his crew.
We're going to come up short
on the gold front
on a season where we've got
a huge amount of bills.
So, what do you wanna
do to try and...
fix the problem?
I think
that we should
try to get something else
opened up.
Still shy of last
year's 7,500 ounce total,
Parker wants to push
for another quick score
before winter hits.
When we finished up
at the Airstrip in zone three,
you know, we did that
addition there
where the road was,
and that was all thawed
underneath there.
That was good ground
too you when you tore up
that road, Mitch.
That showed, that showed
some real potential there.
Earlier
in the season...
Hey, man.
I got the first scoop
of the Airstrip the road
extension piled up here
if you want to start sending
it through that wash plant.
Mitch mined out
ground under a road
at the Airstrip...
Twenty,
keep it going to 281.55.
...and his gamble
paid off.
I'll get down to that
section of road
right along the river there,
move a wash plant down there.
So, we'll start getting
things in place
for the reclamation,
and your crew
can start doing that
kind of stuff, right?
- Yep, for sure.
- Okay.
I think I'll go back
to cleaning gold.
It's a lot easier.
Make sure
the bills are paid.
I tell you what,
I'll get the gold to pay
- for the fuel for the guy who's running the dozer.
- Perfect.
- There we go.
- Thanks, Chris.
The end of the year here,
we're going to need the biggest
gold weigh we've had all year.
A hundred and ninety
feet down in the cut,
Rick's crew are racing
against the clock,
and the deeper they go,
the better the pay gets.
I wish somebody would
turn the heat dial up
to help us out
just to finish
this season off.
You just don't know
what this weather's
gonna do up here.
It might turn
minus-45 overnight.
Wake up one morning
and it's over and we're
not up to our gold.
I mean, I've been trying
to go as hard as I can
all season being
the first year with Rick.
I wanna prove myself.
I want to smash the goal.
We've been giving
off season and
and we're down
to that good pay layer.
Now, it's just basically
come down to
how much we can get pumped
through that wash plant.
Everybody's out here
putting in a 100% effort.
You need to push a lot
of yardage through
here at the end.
We know that the gold's
in the ground here...
but we still have
to run it.
No.
buddy,
that wall's caving in.
[bleep]!
out of the way, man.
damn it.
You better
get the
out of the way, man.
damn it.
Rick, you got a copy,
Rick?
man, inner wall
just caved in on us.
Are you kidding me?
This is not good.
All right, just.
Just stay out of there.
Hang tight,
I'll be right there.
Get the
out of the way.
Let's just take off.
Water, that's formed
a pond on a bench
above the cut
has caused the bank
beneath to collapse.
There are high walls
on all sides.
Any further collapse
could bury the pay,
Rick's equipment, and worse,
any crew operating them.
Get the pump
out of there.
If it gets sketchy,
just leave.
- Get the pump out of there. Leave the way flat.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Okay?
- Good.
Yeah, go quick.
Brennan, Kruse,
and Nathan rushed
to rescue the pump
before the collapsing wall
buries the bottom of the cut.
pissed off.
Better make this fast.
We got all of our
out of there.
But for this year,
you know, we're gonna have
to call it, it's just getting
too, too dangerous.
We've got a stockpile
of pay up at the plant.
Hopefully, with what we've
got up there right now,
it's gonna be all we need
to hit our 2,000 ounces
because this cut right here
is done for the year.
Winter has arrived.
This is hell of a lot more
cold than I was expecting.
I just don't know
how much more we can fight.
We've had a rock truck
stuck in a moat,
that's still down.
So, we're down to
60% of our hauling capacity.
But this is a group
of soldiers.
We aren't quitters.
We aren't gonna slow down.
At California Creek,
the temperature has hit
eight below.
But Fred Lewis and his crew
are still 13 ounces short
of their 100 ounce
season goal.
You've gotta adapt
and overcome.
Winter is gonna make us
do a lot of crazy things
to keep going.
Well, that doesn't look right.
trommel is wobbling.
Hey, Warren,
this is Fred. You copy?
The trommel itself
is wobbling.
It looks like
it's off balance.
Oh, do you have
a look at the guider wheels?
The last wheel on
the end of the trommel
doesn't look like
it's doing the right thing.
If we let that run,
it's gonna put more stress
on the other side,
and we're gonna blow
the other side too.
I'm gonna have to shut
the plant down.
Curl out.
Fred uses the excavator
to remove the broken
guide wheel.
I got it.
Hell,
Hey, I got it.
We're gonna take this cap off
and see what's behind
door number one here.
Oh, can you hear that?
It should be like,
like whisper quiet.
This is a bearing that's...
It's a roller bearing
that's supposed to be
in that cage there
to keep the rest
of the bearing together
and, so...
Yeah, we're just gonna
pound that seal
at the back end,
go look for another one.
We're gonna play
Robin Hood today.
- You know?
- All right.
We're gonna rob
from the good bearings
and give it to
the bad bearings.
You know, when you're
out here in these
secluded environments,
you've gotta use
what you got.
This small bearing
could be the part
that ends their season,
if they can't find
an identical replacement.
You got her,
you busted her.
We want to get
that plant up and goin'
'cause we've got
a pile of pay dirt
around here yet.
So, we don't actually know
if this is the right size here
but we're taking a gamble and,
and hoping that
it's gonna be the one
that we're looking for.
That's it, eh?
This is what
it should look like.
Just like this.
All together, one piece.
Not like that other one
that was in several
and very unhealthy.
So, we'll take
this piece over,
looks like it should be
a pretty close match.
Sheldon's hunch
pays off.
The bearing is a perfect fit.
Yeah, it's pretty tight,
that'll be good.
That's a wrap.
We got
this guide wheel
back together now.
We're gonna get this
welded back up into place
and let's get back
to washing some rocks.
Stick up, stick out. Yeah.
Is that good there?
No, that'll work.
Dirt Devil
is back in business.
And Fred could still
hit his 100 ounce goal.
Trommel's spinnin'.
We're hoping it's gonna
last the rest of the season.
We're stockpiled.
We know we got lots,
very good pay, so, uh...
The Devil's hungry,
let's feed her.
At Paradise Hill,
temperatures have dropped
to ten below freezing
and the snow is falling fast.
Winter has hit.
Call it a day?
So, let's turn
the plant up.
There we go
turning up.
The more we
turn up the feeder,
the more yardage
we're gonna run
through the trommel.
Hopefully that'll help us get
to the season goal
of 4,500 ounces.
Hope
Kevin increases
the feed rate
to finish the last
of the pay pile
before the plant
starts to freeze.
We're trying to get this
all done as soon as possible.
We started the season,
clearing the snow.
Now, we're gonna end
the season running from it.
Winter has officially arrived
here on Paradise Hill.
We've shut
the Kiwi plant down.
Hopefully, we can finish
the season on a high note
and then get the
out of here.
Ruby is sitting
on a pile of pay.
With the plant at full speed,
she should be through it
in two hours.
Hey, Ruby, how is it goin'?
It's going well.
We're pushing through
the last little bit here.
Hell yeah.
Yep, huh.
Yep.
Sounds good.
It's bittersweet,
you know, we're at the end
of the season.
We've worked hard
and I hope
our work has paid off.
And this last scoop
will get us
to that 4.5 thousand
ounce gold.
Here we go.
It's been
one hell of a season.
Last bit of pay
through the trommel.
End of the season.
final cleanup.
Hey, Nick.
Huh, it's a nice one.
Oh, you know,
we tore this wash plant apart.
It was beautiful out.
We got it over here
on the new pad,
and we started
putting it together.
And this morning we came out
to a dusting of snow
on everything.
Completely changed overnight.
Temperatures
have plummeted,
but Mitch still has to sluice
Parker's final
pay of the season
from the new cut,
Redemption Road.
We'll see what she does,
but check out those
sluice runs
we're gonna need
to run some water
on them just getting
'em to thaw out.
Ready to go?
Throw some dirt at it.
What do you think?
Yeah, let's do it.
Let's see what happens.
Here we go.
Let's fire this up.
Oh, yeah, there we go.
She's shaking.
Took a little bit
to get her goin'.
Everything's looking
good here, Justin.
Give us some dirt, man.
All right, go time.
Oh-ho-ho, there we go.
Here it is.
We got the first pay dirt
of our winter wonderland
here going through Big Red.
Nice.
So, we're here
on Redemption Road
trying to get as much
pay out of here
as quick as we can,
before it freezes us out.
It's Big Red's last chance
to pay out
before the end of the season.
We're not going home
without a fight.
With the cold
weather, there's lots
of different variables.
And if for any reason
we gotta shut down,
the pipeline could freeze up
and we're gonna have
no water to wash the rocks
and get that gold.
So, we got to do everything
we can possible
to keep the plant
running steady.
Are you having
any major problems?
Depends
what you consider major.
When there's dirt
getting washed...
Right now,
we're doing all right.
If it's minus ten or so,
you've only got,
what, two hours?
If you're broke down
for more than two hours
then the sluice runs
are gonna be frozen solid.
Oh, yeah.
Well, that's what
we're gonna focus on
is just keeping it running.
We got all four trucks
bringing paydirt up.
Hopefully we can get
all the dirt through
before that happens.
All right.
Paydirt's coming out
of the cut right now.
We got lots of material
up here on the deck.
So, all we have to do is just
try and keep Big Red running.
Overnight,
the temperature
at Redemption Road
has dropped to 15 below.
The snow continues to be
falling here on the mine site.
And everything's starting
to get a little packed here.
So, it's getting slick.
You got the trucks
bringing pay up here.
We got to be very careful now.
You look at all the icicles
already starting to form up
here on Big Red.
We shut this wash plant off,
it's not gonna take
much time at all
for everything
to freeze up here.
So, we gotta keep it running.
Yeah, I figured
we're on ice
in this loader, right now.
With these icy conditions
and going up and down
the ramp,
it's definitely dangerous.
So, I just gotta be
definitely on its heels
and paying attention.
Whoa!
Justin, go kill the plant,
go kill the plant.
Right now, we're just gonna
shut down Big Red.
Hopefully, there's nothing
too major
and we're gonna fire back up.
Well, it look like we got
a jam up in the pre-wash,
but we'll take
a quick look here.
What did you do?
At Redemption Road,
a blockage in the pre-wash
has forced the crew
to shut down.
How the did that
get through?
- Big rock in there?
- Oh, yeah.
You want to get that big bar
from the feeder?
We had a close call.
I thought I could break it
in half, like,
some sort of superhero.
- This ain't working, Mitch.
- Lollygagging.
If they can't clear
the pre-wash fast,
the plant will freeze
and their season will be over.
Yeah!
I saw we had material
spilling out in
the pre-wash here,
you can see
all this dirt that's built up
it was sloughing off
the side here.
Watch out.
The risk with any downtime
this time of year
is you only have
a couple of hours to be down
before everything
starts freezing up...
which is just kind of cool,
like, it's kind of fun.
It keeps you,
keeps you on your toes.
An hour in
and the pre-wash
is still blocked.
You know, I think this is one
of the first rock jams
we've had this season
- in the pre-wash.
- It's the first one we've had.
Yeah, so, that's not bad.
Oh, just the boot.
What?
Right, I see
Parker's technique.
But I've never seen
your technique there, Justin.
You know, you see this
foot action here.
Watch Justin, now the toes.
Not bad, eh?
You look like a crab up there,
- just using your toes.
- I know.
- Oh, yeah, there you go.
- Some gold in that stuff.
That's better than what we
saw at Mud Mountain.
We couldn't just
pick up a rock and find
a piece of gold there.
Did you see that?
You know, this ground up here
might not be the best,
but it's been pretty reliable.
- All right, you're all good?
- Yeah.
We just need
this to fire back up.
Big Red lives
to fight another day.
Few rocks, jam, jammed up
ain't going to hurt us.
Whoa!
There it is.
We're very fortunate,
we caught it
as quick as we did.
We got it cleared out,
Big Red's back running.
But if this would have
happened at night,
with the temps like this,
plant would have been down
for a while,
probably wouldn't
got it back going.
We're almost there,
but we still got
a ways to go.
Come on, Big Red.
Hang in there.
That right there...
is ice.
Fred Lewis is still
13 ounces short
of his season goal,
but with his 50-50 split
with Brandon Clayton's crew,
they still need twice that.
We're basically
chasing our thawed pay,
there isn't
much of it left.
That's as far in as I can go.
These pieces of equipment
are getting beat up
by all this frozen ground.
The end is near.
We lit a fire inside
the hopper just to heat it up,
get the frost out of it
so it will spin.
Over at the wash plant,
Brandon's trying to get
the wash plant running
after another freezing night.
See, you can hear that, eh?
That little ice crystals
smashing in there.
Solid as a rock, dude.
Probably 8,000 pounds
of ice in there.
8,000 pounds of solid ice.
We should get
a fire torch on it, but...
...it'll take us
six-seven hours
to thaw this thing out.
When this eight inch
waterline freezes solid,
then it's way too cold
and we need to get back home.
Freddy, you got a copy?
This is Fred.
Hey, Fred,
we need you down here
as soon as possible.
We got an issue down here.
Roger that.
I'll be right there.
- What's going on?
- My eight inch water line froze.
That froze solid.
Oh, that's not good.
It looks pretty frozen.
When eight inch water line
freezes, it's game over.
So, so, what do you,
what do you want to do?
- I'm not seeing any way we could keep going.
- Right.
I think, we were lucky
to be here this long.
I think you're right.
It's just time to pack up,
go home.
- Yeah.
- Take what we got in our box, and...
All right,
I'm gonna call the guys
and we'll get those
mats pulled.
- and...
- 10-4.
- Get everything out of here. Good job, bro.
- Fred.
- Okay, I'll see you later.
- Yup, later.
Hey, Misfits, I wanna
have you guys meet up at camp.
We're gonna have a meeting.
Everybody, Lottie dottie.
What's up? What is up?
- Ah, there you go.
- Howdie, howdie.
- Hey...
- What's up, man?
All right,
so I talked to Brandon.
His... his pipes are freezing.
His water pump
has very little left.
If it gets any colder
than it is.
It's supposed to snow
a foot tonight.
There is no pay left,
right now
that's economically viable
to pull.
Basically, what I'm saying is
we're done.
This season's been,
you know, first of all man,
I don't think that
there's anybody who could say
that we did not put...
- the time in.
- Yeah.
When's the last time you
had to put that much
focus and energy
into one flippin' task?
- One goal, one objective.
- 2009.
Fighting the Taliban
in Afghanistan.
Yep. 2009, 2010.
I was thinking the other day
when we were talking
about therapy,
I was just like, "Yeah,
I used to work so
damn hard
You can't even think about,
where all your
problems are."
Dude, cognitive reboot, man.
Yeah.
Fred's crew
of military veterans
still needs to clean
all the concentrate
they've produced
to find out if they've hit
their 100 ounce season goal.
Got to pull mats,
all full mat pull.
We'll do that today.
We get our final go away
and we go home.
- You guys good with that?
- Yeah, cool.
- Misfits.
It's always got to be
so close, man.
Rick's
Rally Valley mission
to double his gold haul
to 2,000 ounces
is in the balance
as the Yukon winter
slams the door on his season.
We, uh, did everything
we could, man.
Frozen sluices aren't doing us
any favors, right now.
I don't think we could go on
any longer this year,
even if we had more dirt.
Well, it's the last scoop.
Time to shut her down.
If it wasn't in the pay pile,
there's nothing
we can do this year.
All right, boys,
that's the last one.
Let's, uh, shut her down
and see what we got.
Well, I see
some gold in here, eh.
- Hey. Yeah.
- There's some gold in here...
That other one looked good.
When you see
runs like this,
it's usually time to get
the out of here
and go home for the winter.
Well, this is the last cleanup
of the season, minus ten...
That's cold,
do you know what I mean?
We usually try and get done
and get out of here,
but the weather's set in,
a lot earlier this year.
So, hopefully, this will take
us to our 2000 ounce of goal
and that's what
matters, right?
Rick's crew dug
190 feet down to pay dirt
that should be
three times as rich
as the pay he normally runs.
It doesn't look
too bad, but I hate guessing
and you're never gonna
know until you run
it across the scales.
Hopefully, it's all
in the box, man.
That's all we got
for this year.
Well, here we are.
We finally made it.
This is the last scoop
heading towards the Harper
and this road cut
is gonna be finished.
At the airstrip,
Mitch taps out
Redemption Road.
Yeah, buddy, go ahead
and throw her in there.
That's the last one.
How's that feel?
Oh, I don't know.
After Mother Nature
and everything else
against us,
I wasn't sure
we were gonna get here.
It feels pretty good.
Whoo!
- How does it feel?
- There it is.
Whoo! We're done.
That's it.
- Shut her down, pack up--
- Shut her down, boys. Yeah.
Good work, Justin.
Yeah.
It's definitely been
a struggle here,
but we got Chris down
ready to do the cleanup.
And it's time
to call it a season.
Worst part is, I got
to wash his mats
with my bare hands.
- Little frosty this morning.
- Little bit.
It was a good call digging up
this road, Mitch.
It really was. I think,
if you get a good
clean-up here,
it could put us over the top
from last year.
When you look back,
we've done a lot of cuts.
We did zones one and two
at the airstrip.
Then we did zone three,
we did the road extension
in zone three.
Then we sent Sluicifer down,
did the good,
the bad, the ugly.
We took Big Red up,
did Mud Mountain,
now, we brought it back down
here and did the road.
- Nine cuts.
- Whole bunch, man.
It is.
It's all the thawed dirt
we have right here.
So, if it's in there,
it's in there.
If it's not,
we gave it a hell of a try.
To beat last season's
7,500 ounce gold total,
they still need
over 350 ounces.
You know,
we're really close.
We've been gaining
on last season's numbers
little by little, but...
just not enough
to have a season breaker.
But...
you never know
what this ground holds.
As he worked
towards the river,
it got better and better.
And the roads
right alongside the river.
So,
this should be
a good final cleanup.
All right, well, we're gonna
start breaking things down,
start winterizing stuff,
- and, uh, we'll see down at the gold weigh room.
- Okay.
Sounds like a plan.
We'll be out of here
- in just a couple minutes.
- Thanks.
Another season over, eh,
hard to believe.
Whoo! Chris.
Final cleanup.
- Final cleanup.
Been watching
the geese fly by,
thinking, you know,
that they're going
in the same direction
I wanna go.
High-fives, ladies.
Well done.
- Real terrific.
- We did it, we did it.
We did it.
As you can see,
it's getting really cold out.
I mean, the timing
was impeccable.
We're about
a 360 ounces short
from the last year.
It's gonna be close.
It is, it's gonna be
very, very, close.
- Hola.
- Hi, guys.
Hola.
After six hard months
of mining,
the Beets family gathers
for their final gold weigh
of the season...
I know it's a lot, isn't it?
It's more than you.
...to find out
if they've hit
their 4,500 ounce goal.
Thing is
this is our last week,
we're all shut down now.
How'd the last week go?
We did do some sluicing,
so I hope we have something
in one of those jars.
Just hope that we have
something to show
for all the headache
that we were down there for.
It's snowing, I could see
Santa Claus waving
as he was driving by--
Yeah.
- Say hello to my little friend.
- What? No way!
That, I don't think we've ever
gotten that much off of Kiwi.
Is that a season total?
Okay, everybody ready?
Let's do this thing,
chicken wing.
Twenty, thirty,
forty, eighty,
ninety,
hundred,
one hundred and forty,
one hundred and fifty,
158.34. Yee!
That's super awesome.
I did not expect that at all.
Neither did I.
Worth $285,000,
battling the cursed cut
has finally delivered.
So now, that I've contributed
a little something
to, uh, the end of the year
gold weigh,
how much more do we need
to get to that 4,500?
Another 354 ounces.
I hope it's in those jars.
They look, they look,
pretty promising.
Three, two, one, go.
Ten,
20, 30, 40, 50,
110, 120, 130,
200, 210,
220, 300,
310, 20,
- 30, 340, 350, 360,
- Well, you hit your goal.
...370, 380, 390,
400.
410, 420, 430, 450,
460,
463.94.
Both cuts,
bringing in a total
of 1.1 million dollars.
That's our biggest gold weigh
this far.
And the season total
for this year
is 4,620.9 ounces.
Okay, that means
we're over by 120.9 ounces.
The Beets
have mined well over
eight million dollars
and beaten their goal
for Paradise Hill.
I would just like
to say that this year
has been pretty great
seeing as you have
a granddaughter.
That's the best thing
about this year.
You know, it is...
- That's priceless.
- Far more precious
from all that metal
you have on the table.
Yeah.
You guys
all done a good job.
And I guess we have
to get ready for winter.
So, you guys wanna get
on that so we can all leave?
- She's the boss.
- She is the boss.
- Whatever makes you feel better.
- We'll see you in Holland.
- Yes.
- Give me a hug.
- I love you. I love you.
Bye, okay.
See you in The Netherlands.
Yeah, that turned out
pretty good.
I have to say so myself.
And we got another grandchild.
So, life is pretty good.
Yeah.
- Yeah.
- There you go.
- Hey, hey, hey.
- What's up?
- Let's see.
- That sounded heavy.
- Oh, yeah.
- All right, guys.
It's the last one.
I'm a little nervous
about this one.
We had a tough week.
At the start
of the season,
Fred struggled
to find ground to mine.
He didn't start sluicing
until over two months
into the five month season.
Now, he's going to find out
if he has made
it as a Yukon miner
and hit his 100 ounce goal.
Regardless of what
this is, though,
I'm proud of you, guys.
Right now, we're sitting
at 87 ounces.
Remember, we give
half of it away.
So, we need 26 ounces
- to hit 100.
- All right.
The crew needs
13 ounces
to hit their goal.
But, half of the final gold
belongs to Fred's partner,
Brandon Clayton.
Kind of delaying
the inevitable here, guys.
How about you start pouring?
Oh, I've never been
this nervous.
Twenty-six, come on.
One, two, four, five,
six, seven, eight, ten,
eleven, fifteen, seventeen,
Twenty.
Twenty one, twenty two,
twenty three...
...twenty four,
twenty five, twenty six...
twenty seven, twenty eight,
twenty nine, thirty...
Oh, look at this.
- ...thirty eight...
- Oh, come on.
...thirty nine...
Come on.
...forty two, forty three,
forty four...
45.585.
Whoo!
- Oh, my God!
- That's a weight.
We get half of that,
so we get 22.8 ounces.
Nearly twice what
they needed.
- Good.
- We did it.
- Not only did we do it, we beat it.
- I can't believe it.
We came here under
- impossible frickin' odds, late in the season...
- Mm-hmm.
- ...found ground...
- Yeah.
...and we pulled
over 110 ounces.
Worth almost $200,000,
over 15 times what they
produced last year.
I'm proud to be
part of this team.
You come here to the Yukon,
green as
Now, I don't care
what anybody says.
- You guys are
- Right on.
- Thank you.
- You guys are.
Thank you.
We appreciate you.
- Thanks--
- This was not given to any of us.
Nobody was handed
anything here.
We earned with blood,
sweat and some tears.
- Mm-hmm.
- This was a fight, man.
- This was a fight and I don't think...
- Yeah, the whole time.
...I would have had
it any other way.
Thank you for being
part of this team because
now we're all family.
I needed this,
this helped me focus,
and you guys stuck with me,
and I said, "[bleep],
I'm all in for the win, man."
'Cause when
people telling you,
you couldn't do it,
it's like, "No."
You bring in a bunch
of green berets,
- we're gonna make it happen.
- Mm-hmm.
All of us can say
we've gold mined
in the frickin' Yukon.
It's like legendary epic
You talk about obstacles
we've all overcome
them in our lives,
this is probably, for me,
one of my biggest
achievements ever.
Let's pack our
and get outta here,
let's go see our families.
I'd call this
an A-team, gold mining A-Team.
You're surrounded by guys,
you trust them with your life
and it feels like that
with these guys here.
Kudos to Fred,
he had a number of hurdles
that he had to clear,
you know, to make this happen.
He's a great leader
and he's a great guy.
I can't wait to start
it up for next year.
I started this company
to help veterans
to give some people purposes
that needed a purpose.
And right now,
we've done that.
Every single person
that came up here
has a purpose now.
And now,
I couldn't feel any more
proud of my team.
I just can't wait
to kick more ass.
How are you doing,
buddy?
Two days ago,
Kruse was rushed
to the hospital with
stomach pains.
I've got, uh, diverticulitis,
it's an infection
in my intestine and colon.
We've all busted our
asses all season long
and come up short.
Literally,
gut-wrenching.
Just feel helpless laying here
in a hospital room.
Well yeah,
I mean it's [bleep],
bummer that you're
sitting in the hospital,
but that's probably
exactly where you need
to be right now.
There's one
gold weigh left,
that's the big one, so...
keep me posted.
It's gonna be close, man.
They're cleaning it up now,
we'll know, and as soon as
I know, you'll know.
- All right, man.
- All right, buddy, take care.
You too, man.
Oh, for sure.
Man, this weather's beautiful,
we should start
sluicing again.
I think so.
Not everybody
has made it
to Rick's final gold weigh
of the season.
How's old Kruse boy doing?
He's in the hospital,
he's got diverticulitis
and possible perforation.
He is in some pain,
but you know, he'll recover.
At the start
of the season,
Rick shocked everyone
by doubling his gold
to 2,000 ounces.
To achieve the impossible,
he moved over
a million yards of dirt
from a cut over three times
as deep as any
he's mined before.
And he did it all with
a bare-bones crew.
Well, man, it's been quite
the season, eh.
I couldn't be more happy
to be a part of my
first year here,
and look at what we
conquered as a team,
man, it's crazy.
Kind of nice to be that
small family feel again
- just get back to the roots of mining.
- Yeah.
We're small team, right?
But we do,
we're doing big things.
You look at what
we did this year, like,
you leave for home with...
- your head high, you know what I mean, like?
- Yeah.
This deep ground's
where it's at.
I've never gotten
anywhere close to that deep.
- Oh!
- None of us here had.
- No.
- And that wall to collapse,
it sucks that happened but,
I, I think there's huge
potential in this channel,
and I'm looking forward
to mapping out
where it goes and
chase
Yeah.
We were at
just over 1,650
from the last gold weigh,
we're just shy of 350 ounces
to hit 2,000.
And it's gonna be
really close,
I'm not going to lie.
This, this is 250 ounces
right here.
- Holy
- Right here, and I don't know what's in here,
as I want to do it
with you guys, so...
There's 250 in there,
we need like 96 ounces.
To hit his season goal,
Rick needs the biggest
gold weigh
he's ever had.
Man,
this is gonna be close.
It's absurd.
We've got ten, 20,
30, 40, 50, 60,
70, 80...
...still going, 90, 100.
- Shut the up.
- 100 and...
- 103.47.
- No way.
yeah.
I got
something else though,
we didn't get to the bottom
of that cut,
but we got close,
we got some nuggets.
- No way. Wow.
- Nice.
So, yeah.
Well, this would be
a big
- in the Indian River, right? Yeah.
- Yeah.
See what it is.
Oh, that's a good sound.
That is.
Yeah, there we go,
that's another
- 27 ounces, boys.
- Yeah.
- Awesome.
- Got one more little jar here.
This will sound really good.
- No!
- Wow!
That's another
13.5 ounces.
Doesn't that look cool though?
Look at that.
Oh, man.
That is by far
our biggest gold total
for a week.
Uh, It's almost
400 ounces, 393.
That's 2,047 ounces.
That's awesome, man.
After gambling everything,
on hitting
a gold rich pay layer
at the bottom
of the Rally Valley,
it's finally paid off,
delivering $700,000
worth of gold
in the last week.
and taking his
season gold haul
to almost $3.7 million.
- I love you, man.
- Love you too, dad.
- Good job.
- And it's awesome that you're here for this.
- Appreciate it.
- This is a big step.
- That represents victory right there.
- Yeah.
The goal we needed was
at the bottom of Rally Valley
we all went after it
and we got it.
The amount of people
that we had and to pull off
what we pulled off,
I'm gonna have
a nice little jar of gold
for all you guys, so...
What about that?
Check's in the mail, dad.
I'm trying to think back
what you used to pay me
when I was growing up.
- Was paying you a kick in the ass.
- There it is.
That's, that's what it was,
it was a kick in the ass,
there it is.
- All right, let's get out of the snow
- Time to go home, boys.
Is it nice to go
home knowing that
we hit 2000 ounces?
I don't know how to top it.
I mean, I will,
I'll top it next year, but...
there's more
than a lifetime
of mining here and...
I'd put the down payment
to secure it.
That's a hell of a good
feeling 'cause by the end
of next year,
I got no royalties to pay.
Unbelievable.
Rick has entered
the major leagues,
doubled his gold total,
bought his own ground
and produced his
best season ever.
To say that
I'm proud right now
is an understatement.
Man, it's a,
it's a good feeling.
Final gold weigh
for the season.
Traditionally, we get
a campfire going and get
the whole crew down here.
Let them see the fruits
of their labors.
All the gold we're gonna get,
we got.
After starting this
season on the back foot,
facing competition
for Klondike ground,
and struggling to mine
the deepest cut of his career,
It's time for Parker's
final gold weigh.
Parker, Parker, Parker.
What? Does that make sense?
Thank you all for coming
to this little pow-wow,
our final gold weigh.
It is your
guys' work that
got us through the season.
You know,
this season started out,
I was a little bit nervous.
We lost Superman Shane
and Brennan,
and it was a little bit
of a concern for me,
but, um, you guys all rose
to the challenges.
And thank you.
Do you wanna throw
some gold on the scale?
So, we've got...
...Sluicifer
that was running down
on Ken and Stuart's ground,
- and Joan, of course.
- Yeah.
I hate to pick on you,
old timer,
but I know we get excited
when we find a tusk.
What it must
have been like,
when you found, like,
the whole animal walking?
No, Chris,
- I'm old, but I'm not that damn old.
- I'm gonna get my...
abuse when you leave,
so you just sit back
and take it.
So, Ken, this is...
your Ugly Cut.
And this is from like
half a week.
To hit his biggest
season total ever,
Parker needs 7,500 ounces,
but he's over
350 ounces short.
Sixty ounces.
Ken, for your
ground this year,
the good, the bad
the ugly is 2,076 ounces.
- That's good.
Yeah, that's not bad.
Ken's ground this year
has delivered
over 3.5 million dollars.
Ken, thank you for helping
getting that strip down there.
And thank you
for just being here
all season,
like nobody has...
...nobody has a landlord
that comes and, like...
does all the work.
- You guys left nothing for us.
- Yes.
This is the end of all
the Airstrip Cuts.
This is where Big Red
just finished up.
Let's see
what we got here, Doumitt.
Fifty, hundred,
- and we're still going.
- Wow!
- Keep it going, keep it going.
- Yeah!
299.6.
- Yeah.
So all in all, we got 3,000
- combined with both wash plants.
- Yes.
- That's pretty awesome.
- Yeah, it's...
Yeah, you guys answered
the challenge, man.
The bonus 300 ounces
from Redemption Road
puts the season total
at 7,501.
So here's
Mud Mountain.
What do you got?
This is 350 ounces,
right there.
And in this one...
is another 350 ounces.
Yeah.
We need 3,000 ounces
to break even at Mud Mountain,
we're at 2,950 ounces,
we're 50 ounces short.
But...
we have one more thermos.
It's a one-hander,
it's not that heavy.
- It's 80...
- It's gotta be 100.
- ...100 and...
- Got it.
108.45.
So, for Mud Mountain, we got
3,058 ounces.
Far less than
the drill tests indicated
and barely enough
to cover the costs.
Parker. Hey, man,
you almost made
100 grand on the deal, almost.
- Well, all that worry, all that wear and tear...
- No, I mean.
It's not... It's just
like the sad part
- is how much effort went into it.
- Yeah.
Like, 'cause, like,
you guys busted your balls
- to make that work.
- Oh, we pulled it through.
- I know.
- Yeah.
- They won't.
- Neither will you.
I'll throw some
fun facts at ya.
Last year we had 7,504 ounces,
this year, we have
8,309.75 ounces.
- Whoa!
- Yeah.
We beat last year
by 800 ounces, you guys.
Despite Mud Mountain
not living up to its promise,
Parker's mined over
a million dollars
more than ever before,
grossing a record-breaking
fifteen million dollars
in Klondike gold.
I wouldn't want to have
had any different crew.
Like, really enjoyed
working with you guys.
You all had, even you, Justin
and then losing
the fuel caps...
Yes, even you.
But, like, we had
some really good
greenhorns this year.
And, and I hope
that we can do it again.
Team, Parker, yeah.
- Cheers, guys.
- Cheers.
- Yeah.
- I'll drink to that.